Better lower bounds → better bounding → faster termination of the Algo.
Assume $p_j \in \mathbb{Z}_+$ ∀ $j \in \{1,2,\dots,n\}$. Treat job $j$ as $p_j$ jobs with processing time = 1.
$$\gamma_{jk} := \begin{cases}
1 & \text{if one unit of job } j \text{ is processed during } t \in [k-1, k) \\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}$$
$$P := \sum_{j=1}^n p_j$$
Write as IP:
> [!form] IP
> $\sum_{k=1}^P x_{jk} = p_j$  ∀ $j \in \{1,2,\dots,n\}$  
> $\sum_{j=1}^n x_{jk} = 1$  ∀ $k \in \{1,2,\dots,P\}$  
> $x_{jk} \in \{0,1\}$  $\gamma_{jk}$

This leads to a relaxation, since it allows a special kind of preemption.

Obj. function:  
- $c_{jk} = \begin{cases}0 & \text{if } k \leq d_j \\w_j & \text{if } k > d_j\end{cases}$

> [!LP] LP
> - $\min \sum_{j=1}^n \sum_{k=1}^P c_{jk} x_{jk}$  
> - S.t. 
> 	- $\sum_{k=1}^P x_{jk} = p_j$ ∀ $j \in {1,2,\dots,n}$
> 	    
> 	- $\sum_{j=1}^n x_{jk} = 1$ ∀ $k \in {1,2,\dots,P}$
> 	    
> 	- $0 \leq x_{jk} \leq 1$

→ which is a transportation problem.

> [!theorem] Theorem 59  
> For every instance of $1|r_j|\sum w_j U_j$, the optimal obj. val. of the above transportation problem is a lower bound on the optimal obj. val. of the $1|r_j|\sum w_j U_j$ instance.

Thus a subproblem  
`* ... x_{ij} j_2 ... j_k`  
we compute the contribution of the jobs $j_{i} j_2 \dots j_k$  
to the obj. fct exactly and add to it the optimal obj. val. of the transp. prob.  
for the jobs $\{1,2,\dots,n\} \setminus \{j_i,j_2,\dots,j_k\}$

A Branch-and-Bound Algo. for $1|r_j|L_{\max}$  
- Use **non-delay implementation of EDD** as a heuristic to obtain a feasible sol. fast.  
- As part of Ass. 5, we are proving that **preemptive EDD rule** delivers optimal schedule for $1|r_j,prmp|L_{\max}$ (which is a relaxation of $1|r_j|L_{\max}$)  
- Therefore we can use the **preemptive EDD rule** to compute lower bounds effectively.

> [!theorem] Theorem 60  
> Preemptive EDD yields optimal schedule for $1|r_j,\:prmp|L_{\max}$

> [!corollary] Corollary 61  
> If a schedule delivered by the Preemptive EDD schedule has no preemption, then it’s an optimal schedule for the corresponding instance of $1|r_j|L_{\max}$.

Branching rule (for 1 | $r_{j}$ | $L_{max}$)
- Let J denote the set of unscheduled jobs
- Let t be the completion time of the last job in the partial schedule (first (k-1) jobs have been schedules)
- Then a job $j\in J$ need not be considered for the $k^{th}$ position if $r_{j}\geq min_{j\in J}\{ max\{ t,r_{l} \}+p_{l} \}$ 

If the above inequality holds and we consider a schedule in which job j is the kth job (with the same (k-1) jobs preceeding job j as before) then we can insert a job from $J\setminus\{ j \}$ into the kth position (before job j) and not make $L_{max}$ worse.

