Back to unital subrings...  
Suppose $x \in R$, where $R$ is a ring, and $n \in \mathbb{Z}$.  
Since $(R, +)$ is an abelian group, $nx$ is well-defined.  
Can think of $n$ as the element $n1 \in R$, in the sense that if  
$x \in R$, can talk about $n \cdot x$ or $x \cdot n$ or $x \pm n$  
Example: in $\mathbb{Z}/10\mathbb{Z}$, $10 \cdot 1 = 0$.

> [!lemma]
> If $R$ is a ring, $x \in R$, and $n, m \in \mathbb{Z}$, then  
> • $n1 \cdot x = x \cdot n1 = nx$, and  
> • $n(mx) = (nm)x$.

- Proof
	- Exercise. Idea: If $n \ge 0$, then $n1 \cdot x = (1 + 1 + \dots + 1) \cdot x = nx$


### Characteristic and prime subring  

> [!lemma]
> Let $R$ be a ring. The set $R_0 = \{n1 : n \in \mathbb{Z}\}$ is a subring of $R$, and  
> is contained in every other subring. Furthermore, as a group,  
> $R_0 \cong \mathbb{Z}/k\mathbb{Z}$, where $k = \min\{m \in \mathbb{N} : m1 = 0\}$,  
> (or $k = 0$ if this set is empty).

> [!definition] Prime subring and characteristic
> $R_0$ is called the **prime subring** of $R$, and $k$ is called the  
> **characteristic** of $R$, denoted $\operatorname{char}(R)$.

Examples:
- $\operatorname{char}(\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}) = n$.
- $\operatorname{char}(\mathbb{Z}) = 0$.
- $\operatorname{char}(R) = 1$ if and only if $R = \{0\}$.

> [!lemma]
> Let $R$ be a ring. The set $R_0 = \{n1 : n \in \mathbb{Z}\}$ is a subring of $R$, and  
> is contained in every other subring. Furthermore, as a group,  
> $R_0 \cong \mathbb{Z}/k\mathbb{Z}$, where $k = \min\{m \in \mathbb{N} : m1 = 0\} \cup \{0\}$.

> [!proof]
> $R_0$ is the cyclic subgroup of $(R, +)$ generated by $1$.  
> As a cyclic group, $R_0 \cong \mathbb{Z}/k\mathbb{Z}$, where  
> $k = \min\{m \in \mathbb{N} : m1 = 0\}$ or $k = 0$.  
> If $n, m \in \mathbb{Z}$, then $n1 \cdot m1 = nm1 \in R_0$.  
> And $1 \in R_0$, so $R_0$ is a unital subring.  
> If $S$ is a unital subring of $R$, then $1 \in S$, so $S$ contains cyclic  
> subgroup $R_0$ generated by $1$.

### Centre of a ring  

> [!definition] Centre
> If $R$ is a ring, the **centre** of $R$ is the set  
> $Z(R) = \{x \in R : xy = yx \text{ for all } y \in R\}$.

> [!lemma]
> $Z(R)$ is a subring of $R$.

> [!corollary]
> If $R$ is a non-zero ring, then $Z(R)$ is non-trivial.  
> **Proof:** $Z(R)$ contains prime subring $R_0$
